# Why i canceled my economist subscription after 20 years of reading weekly

I have been an avid reader of the economist for over two decades. Over that period I paid about five thousand euros in subscribers fees. First I had a print only subscription, digital reading was a rarity in the early 2000’s. Then switched to a print- and-digital-one for holidays and such. Since I started traveling full time I have a digital-only subscription to the economist. Although the relationship was not always as smooth as it could be, I always received what seemed like good value. 

When I started reading as a student, the “news paper” opened a completely new view of the world and helped me change my mind over and over again. It gave me a better understanding of investment and government finances and a far more nuanced view of the corrupt and tropical places in the world that I now call home. Another appeal was that the tone of the economist was different from the one I heard around me. Me and my fellow left-wing readers jokingly called it our rightwing-weekend-lecture although I think calling it a British millionaire newspaper is unfair.

Honestly my biggest problem is probably the app. Despite their best effort traditional print media is dying and the economist group had to move into the digital space somehow. The app has gone through several incarnations and while all of them have suffered embarrassing technical problems they also transformed the content in a way that I am not quite comfortable with. 

Initially it was quite similar to the print edition and you would get served a pdf-like rendering of the weekly edition to download on your phone every weekend. These were the honeymoon years. I have many happy memories of sitting down on a saturday in some remote corner of the world. Sipping my local morning beverage, opening up my phone and wondering “how did the rest of the world get on this week?” Yet over time the app and the print edition diverged dramatically.

On paper the economist weekend edition is sometimes nearly hundred pages of small print text. Unless it is your job or hobby to do so, there is no way you are going to consume nearly fifty thousand words of world news every weekend. So you have to filter, scan the headlines, jump to your favorite section. The new versions of the economist app make this very hard to do. At some point the app abandoned the idea of weekly editions, they now drip feed articles throughout the week and then gather them in the end in the weekly edition. What is really problematic is that the layout of the app shifts every few days depending on whether it is weekend, holidays or there is some sort of crisis in the world. Buttons move, disappear and change shape. Features are enabled or disabled depending on what the editors want to highlight. The app also doesn't just serve articles, there are also videos, shorts and podcasts. Some of them run in the app, some of them run on external websites. Finally they have all the add on publications they are pushing. Espresso, 1843, the Intelligence, economist insider, and more recently all the email newsletters they want me to subscribe to.

The most recent versions of the app make me feel I am no longer in control of how I consume the content. What is staring back at me through my tiny black mirror no longer seems like a paid source of information but more like an incarnation of the same Moloch algorithm that I find on the likes of facebook, instagram and youtube. Dark patterns are everywhere in the app and while the great contrary articles that have kept me coming back for decades are still there they are either getting rarer, or harder to find. A wise man once told me that if you are not paying “you are the product”. Yet if I am paying, can it still be me that gets chewed on? 

A dark thought that occurred to me is that this algorithmification is what is needed to stay alive as a news organization in the modern world. According to their own [reporting](https://www.economistgroup.com/pdfs/reports/TEG_Annual_Report_2025.pdf) the group's finances seem to be holding up. There is however no doubt being “the news” in 2026 is hard.  Even a publication as staunch and well financed as the economist needs to move with the times. Some of their experiments with shorts and infographics were great, I just felt there was no need to force feed them on me. But perhaps I am missing the bigger picture, perhaps every attention channel that is not monetized and optimized to its full extent can not survive the various pressures the current media landscape visits upon it.

One of my most important questions is “what now” . I think I should pay in some way for the brave people that venture into the unknown on my behalf and snatch some version of the truth from policy desks and warzones across the world. Perhaps having a single news subscription was never the way to do it. Rory and Ali at “the rest is politics“ are certainly scratching part of that geopolitics that needs scratching but I miss the economist's cold dispassionate longtermism. I can’t stomach the writing in the Financial Times and since most of my friends are hippies the New York times rarely tells me anything I don't already know. I could read something provincial like the wall street journal or the guardian. But I don't live where they do and they are not willing to follow me around the world often enough to find real common ground. I am still determined to pay for news but until I can find someone that will give it to me without putting an algorithm in charge I guess I am rawdogging the world for a bit more.  
